# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

* [`networkmanager`](#networkmanager): Manages NetworkManager
* [`networkmanager::config`](#networkmanager--config): Manages NetworkManager configuration
* [`networkmanager::install`](#networkmanager--install): Manages NetworkManager installation
* [`networkmanager::service`](#networkmanager--service): Manages NetworkManager service

### Resource types

* [`networkmanager_connection`](#networkmanager_connection): a networkmanager_connection type

## Classes

### <a name="networkmanager"></a>`networkmanager`

This class manages the NetworkManager service and configuration.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `networkmanager` class:

* [`config_file`](#-networkmanager--config_file)
* [`config_file_mode`](#-networkmanager--config_file_mode)
* [`config_file_owner`](#-networkmanager--config_file_owner)
* [`config_file_group`](#-networkmanager--config_file_group)
* [`manage_nm_config`](#-networkmanager--manage_nm_config)
* [`manage_nm_package`](#-networkmanager--manage_nm_package)
* [`manage_nm_service`](#-networkmanager--manage_nm_service)
* [`manage_nm_service_wait_online`](#-networkmanager--manage_nm_service_wait_online)
* [`manage_nm_service_dispatcher`](#-networkmanager--manage_nm_service_dispatcher)
* [`options`](#-networkmanager--options)
* [`package_name`](#-networkmanager--package_name)
* [`package_version`](#-networkmanager--package_version)
* [`service_name`](#-networkmanager--service_name)
* [`service_ensure`](#-networkmanager--service_ensure)
* [`service_enable`](#-networkmanager--service_enable)
* [`service_wait_online_name`](#-networkmanager--service_wait_online_name)
* [`service_wait_online_ensure`](#-networkmanager--service_wait_online_ensure)
* [`service_wait_online_enable`](#-networkmanager--service_wait_online_enable)
* [`service_dispatcher_name`](#-networkmanager--service_dispatcher_name)
* [`service_dispatcher_ensure`](#-networkmanager--service_dispatcher_ensure)
* [`service_dispatcher_enable`](#-networkmanager--service_dispatcher_enable)

##### <a name="-networkmanager--config_file"></a>`config_file`

Data type: `String[1]`

The path to the NetworkManager configuration file.

Default value: `'/etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf'`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--config_file_mode"></a>`config_file_mode`

Data type: `String[1]`

The mode of the NetworkManager configuration file.

Default value: `'0644'`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--config_file_owner"></a>`config_file_owner`

Data type: `String[1]`

The owner of the NetworkManager configuration file.

Default value: `'root'`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--config_file_group"></a>`config_file_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

The group of the NetworkManager configuration file.

Default value: `'root'`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--manage_nm_config"></a>`manage_nm_config`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to manage the NetworkManager configuration file.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--manage_nm_package"></a>`manage_nm_package`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to manage the NetworkManager package.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--manage_nm_service"></a>`manage_nm_service`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to manage the NetworkManager service.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--manage_nm_service_wait_online"></a>`manage_nm_service_wait_online`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to manage the NetworkManager-wait-online service.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--manage_nm_service_dispatcher"></a>`manage_nm_service_dispatcher`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to manage the NetworkManager-dispatcher service.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--options"></a>`options`

Data type: `Hash`

A hash of options to include in the NetworkManager configuration file.

Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--package_name"></a>`package_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the NetworkManager package.

Default value: `'NetworkManager'`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--package_version"></a>`package_version`

Data type: `String[1]`

The version of the NetworkManager package.

Default value: `'installed'`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--service_name"></a>`service_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the NetworkManager service.

Default value: `'NetworkManager'`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--service_ensure"></a>`service_ensure`

Data type: `String[1]`

The desired state of the NetworkManager service.

Default value: `'running'`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--service_enable"></a>`service_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to enable the NetworkManager service at boot.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--service_wait_online_name"></a>`service_wait_online_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the NetworkManager-wait-online service.

Default value: `"${service_name}-wait-online.service"`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--service_wait_online_ensure"></a>`service_wait_online_ensure`

Data type: `String[1]`

The desired state of the NetworkManager-wait-online service.

Default value: `'running'`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--service_wait_online_enable"></a>`service_wait_online_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to enable the NetworkManager-wait-online service at boot.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--service_dispatcher_name"></a>`service_dispatcher_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the NetworkManager-dispatcher service.

Default value: `"${service_name}-dispatcher.service"`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--service_dispatcher_ensure"></a>`service_dispatcher_ensure`

Data type: `String[1]`

The desired state of the NetworkManager-dispatcher service.

Default value: `'stopped'`

##### <a name="-networkmanager--service_dispatcher_enable"></a>`service_dispatcher_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to enable the NetworkManager-dispatcher service at boot.

Default value: `true`

### <a name="networkmanager--config"></a>`networkmanager::config`

This class manages the NetworkManager configuration file.

### <a name="networkmanager--install"></a>`networkmanager::install`

This class manages the installation of NetworkManager.

### <a name="networkmanager--service"></a>`networkmanager::service`

This class manages the NetworkManager service.

## Resource types

### <a name="networkmanager_connection"></a>`networkmanager_connection`

This type provides Puppet with the capabilities to manage NetworkManager connections.

#### Examples

##### Create an inactive Ethernet profile with static IPv4 settings

```puppet
networkmanager_connection { 'lab-lan':
  ensure         => 'present',
  type           => '802-3-ethernet',
  device         => 'enp0s8',
  ipv4_method    => 'manual',
  ipv4_addresses => ['192.0.2.10/24'],
  ipv4_gateway   => '192.0.2.1',
  ipv4_dns       => ['192.0.2.53'],
  ipv6_method    => 'disabled',
  reapply        => false,
}
```

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `networkmanager_connection` type.

##### `device`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

The network interface this connection applies to (optional).

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum[present, absent]`

Whether this networkmanager_connection should exist on the target system.

Default value: `present`

##### `general_state`

Data type: `Enum[activated, unknown, down, connecting, connected, disconnecting]`

The read-only runtime state of the connection as reported by nmcli.

##### `ipv4_addresses`

Data type: `Optional[Array[Pattern[/\\A\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\/\\d{1,2}\\z/]]]`
_*this data type contains a regex that may not be accurately reflected in generated documentation_

An array of static IPv4 addresses (e.g., ["192.168.1.10/24", "192.168.1.11/24"]).

##### `ipv4_dns`

Data type: `Optional[Array[Pattern[/\\A\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\z/]]]`
_*this data type contains a regex that may not be accurately reflected in generated documentation_

An array of DNS servers (e.g., ["8.8.8.8"]).

##### `ipv4_gateway`

Data type: `Optional[Pattern[/\\A\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\z/]]`
_*this data type contains a regex that may not be accurately reflected in generated documentation_

The IPv4 gateway address (e.g., "192.168.0.1").

##### `ipv4_method`

Data type: `Enum[auto, manual, disabled, ignore]`

The IPv4 configuration method (e.g., auto, manual, disabled, ignore).

Default value: `auto`

##### `ipv4_routes`

Data type: `Optional[Array[Struct[{destination => Pattern[/\\A\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\/\\d{1,2}\\z/], Optional[next_hop] => Pattern[/\\A\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\z/], Optional[metric] => Integer[0], Optional[source] => Pattern[/\\A\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\.\\d{1,3}\\z/]}]]]`
_*this data type contains a regex that may not be accurately reflected in generated documentation_

Additional static IPv4 routes with optional preferred source addresses. Do not declare the connected network from ipv4_addresses or a default route already represented by ipv4_gateway.

##### `ipv6_addresses`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

An array of static IPv6 addresses (e.g., ["2001:db8::1/64", "2001:db8::2/64"]).

##### `ipv6_dns`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

An array of IPv6 DNS servers (e.g., ["2001:4860:4860::8888"]).

##### `ipv6_gateway`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

The IPv6 gateway address (e.g., "2001:db8::1").

##### `ipv6_method`

Data type: `Enum[auto, manual, disabled, ignore]`

The IPv6 configuration method (e.g., auto, manual, disabled, ignore).

Default value: `auto`

##### `ipv6_routes`

Data type: `Optional[Array[Struct[{destination => String[1], Optional[next_hop] => String[1], Optional[metric] => Integer[0], Optional[source] => String[1]}]]]`

Additional static IPv6 routes with optional preferred source addresses. Do not declare the connected network from ipv6_addresses or a default route already represented by ipv6_gateway.

##### `type`

Data type: `Enum[ethernet, "802-3-ethernet", loopback, wifi, vpn, bridge, bond, vlan]`

The type of the connection (e.g., ethernet, wifi, vpn).

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `networkmanager_connection` type.

* [`name`](#-networkmanager_connection--name)
* [`reapply`](#-networkmanager_connection--reapply)

##### <a name="-networkmanager_connection--name"></a>`name`

namevar

Data type: `String`

The name of the NetworkManager connection.

##### <a name="-networkmanager_connection--reapply"></a>`reapply`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether to run an immediate runtime reapply on the device after profile changes.

